hello everyone and welcome to the the
last Stellar developer meeting  this
last Stellar developer meeting this
year and  on the agenda for today we
year and on the agenda for today we
have two things  we have Jay from the
have two things we have Jay from the
the core engineering team they'll talk
about some new additions  in protocol
about some new additions in protocol
22 and then he is going to give some
demos so  I will
demos so I will
invite Jay to join me here on stage
hello hello can you hear me yeah I can
hear you okay great  hi everyone
hear you okay great hi everyone
I'm I'm Jay core developer  today I'm
I'm I'm Jay core developer today I'm
going to  walk you through the
going to walk you through the
building blocks that we introduced  in
building blocks that we introduced in
protocal 22 which went live U this month
a couple weeks ago   specifically
a couple weeks ago specifically
around  the The cryptographic
around the The cryptographic
Primitives  namely bs2 381
Primitives namely bs2 381
so yeah so the cap for bs2
3d1 is  cap 59 which was introduced
3d1 is cap 59 which was introduced
I would say three or four months ago
but today I'm going to focus on just
like a high level overview of what you
can do with  different  types of
can do with different types of
functions introduce as well as the the
SDK interface and I'm also going to show
a couple examples  simple ones to
a couple examples simple ones to
illustrate how you can make use of these
core functionality today to build useful
applications so  let's get
applications so let's get
started first let me share my
[Music]
screen okay so
yeah yeah walking through u a few things
so first just briefly   take you
so first just briefly take you
through the cap  since this is not a
through the cap since this is not a
protocol meeting I'll just be really
brief and not spend  any time
brief and not spend any time
explaining the details and nuances you
can read more about them
so yes so this cap cap 59  is about
so yes so this cap cap 59 is about
bs12
381 so the brs1 123 3d1 is a is a new
curve that that's added  so
curve that that's added so
the well it's not a new it's not one
curve it's rather like a family of
Curves U there's namely the the G1 which
is the base field and then the G2 which
is the extension field and what's what's
what's useful about  this curve
what's useful about this curve
specifically is that you can you can
compute  pairings  which is taking a
compute pairings which is taking a
point in G1  pointing G2 repair them
point in G1 pointing G2 repair them
and then it Maps into a different point
in a in a higher higher degree  space
in a in a higher higher degree space
so at a high level what why is this
useful you might ask so just like
cryptography we wanted to  compute
cryptography we wanted to compute
like we want to do computations and we
want we don't want to do them in a a
plain manners right  just like ecdsa
plain manners right just like ecdsa
you you utilize the
properties of eliptic curve and then
and then the particularly the
discrete logarithmic problem is is hard
to solve meaning that if you multiply a
point a certain times  on the curve
point a certain times on the curve
and get a different curve it's really
hard to invert that process to get the
number that you multiplied with which
makes it useful for private key and
public key so same principle here  B2
public key so same principle here B2
C1 is just eliptic curve  and it can
C1 is just eliptic curve and it can
it can used it can be used for
signatures which I we show in our first
example first example later on but it's
also it can do a lot more  so yeah so
also it can do a lot more so yeah so
the so the high level G of this is that
using the new the new curve you can
do encrypted computation that follows
certain rules and these are the basic
building blocks which  people use to
building blocks which people use to
build  more advanced and interesting
build more advanced and interesting
applications such as CK
knock all right so yeah so here are the
new host functions introduced  I think
new host functions introduced I think
the total is like 12 if I remember
correctly  there's a yeah the basic
correctly there's a yeah the basic
ones  Point addition
ones Point addition
G1  Point  Point multip
G1 Point Point multip
multiplication with a constant  MSM
multiplication with a constant MSM
which is basically a scaler like a
vector multiplication which is yeah just
multiplying a vector of number by a
vector of points and then add them
up so and then  so these ones  the
up so and then so these ones the
hash to curve in map to curve  these
hash to curve in map to curve these
ones are if you use if you want to
use a digital signature scheme like if
you want to map a random message onto
the curve and and and  map to a point
the curve and and and map to a point
perform the  cryptographic functions
perform the cryptographic functions
on it you first have to take that
message and you have to Hash it onto the
curve  internally how it works  very
curve internally how it works very
briefly is that it there's a h this hash
function sh 256 and then you also
provide something called a DST which is
the domain separate  Separation The
the domain separate Separation The
Domain separation tag which is just a
tag that you append to every message
such that your applications domain
separate from say like ethereum's
application like  so it's always good
application like so it's always good
to have a unique  DST for every
to have a unique DST for every
application to avoid some kind of
intricate attack  so the basically how
intricate attack so the basically how
it works is that it just hashes like
repeatedly hashes that message  into
repeatedly hashes that message into
a certain lens which corresponds to
the  the length of the the point on
the the length of the the point on
the curve and then it checks if that
point is on the Curve  and then if not
point is on the Curve and then if not
it it add one and repeat and then
once it is on the curve then it
multiplies by some co-actor to send this
curve to the correct subgroup
so this is just getting a little bit
into more detail is that these curves
obviously they are  Prime  like they
obviously they are Prime like they
Prime field so the the it's the numbers
on this curve are are modulus of a of a
large Prime in this case  the prime
large Prime in this case the prime
number is
381 bits long thus the name U BR is 12
381 and the subgroup is is different
subgroup is the number of points
that we pick or like the the definition
of the curve pick such that these
operations are defined so the subgroup
is a subset of all available points on
the BS 81 curve and then the for this
particular case the subgroup size is 256
bit  so which is very convenient to be
bit so which is very convenient to be
represented as a big U
256 and so  yeah some of the  host
256 and so yeah some of the host
functions here actually  if you look
functions here actually if you look
at they're called f which basically
takes some U 256 vales and then like add
them together like these numbers
represent the the scalar in the
definition of of this particular curve
where the the modulus of the scaler
equals the subgroup size so this is
useful  for  manipulating the points
useful for manipulating the points
like multiplying them and then making
sure that this scaler is actually like
represented by the points on the curve
like yeah
so we just covered  hash to curve and
so we just covered hash to curve and
then  yeah then we repeat for G2 which
then yeah then we repeat for G2 which
is which is different  group of points
is which is different group of points
same thing here map to G  map map
same thing here map to G map map
to G2 hash to G2 and then the important
one or I guess  the most interesting
one or I guess the most interesting
one that  the applications built off
one that the applications built off
of is the pairing so
so what the parent does is  I'm I'm
so what the parent does is I'm I'm
going to borrow some other  slides
going to borrow some other slides
here so this is
a this is just like a onepage
explanation for BL signature which will
cover in a bit in our example and here
is just the definition of a pairing
which takes a point in the first group
point on the second group pair them
up and send it to a different group
the interesting about the paing is
that it is bilinear which means that it
is linear with respect to both the
first U term as well as the second term
so  so here you see pairing of  P
so so here you see pairing of P
plus s  is equal to pairing of P times
plus s is equal to pairing of P times
pairing of s and same same here on the
second term Q Plus R you can  pair
second term Q Plus R you can pair
them separately and multiply together so
the reason here is a multiplication
again this is just some details is
that because  the paing result is sent
that because the paing result is sent
to like a higher degree  the 12th
to like a higher degree the 12th
degree  that's part of the name BR is
degree that's part of the name BR is
12 so we need to get to the 12th
degree extension field  which is a
degree extension field which is a
multiplic multiplicative Group which
means you can perform like
multiplications  instead of a additive
multiplications instead of a additive
Group which is our G1 and G2 so just
some details but important fact is that
you can  these relationships can hold
you can these relationships can hold
and then by the extension of it  if
and then by the extension of it if
you have a u on the left side if you
have a p repeated  eight times  this
have a p repeated eight times this
is essentially multiplying the result
eight times and then which is equivalent
to taking the  this paring result the
to taking the this paring result the
plain par result of p and Q and exponent
take the exponent a and then you can
move this a either you know on the left
side or on the right side or move it out
it doesn't it doesn't matter so the
pairing  this pair relationship can be
pairing this pair relationship can be
quite useful  as we see in the example
quite useful as we see in the example
of  both signature as well as a  SN
verification okay so I think that goes
over well we just covered the FR which
is the field this is just a this is just
a very simple   like modular
a very simple like modular
arithmetics but with a very  specific
arithmetics but with a very specific
module like addition
subtraction
multiplication  power inversion and
multiplication power inversion and
that's
all so now let's look at the SDK so how
does this look  inside the SDK which
does this look inside the SDK which
is which is what you'll be
interfacing with is so if you look at
the SD there's a it sits inside the
crypto library and then there's a brst
381  module so the all the functions
381 module so the all the functions
are exposed inside the BRS 12 381 module
so the few additional functions like
checking if a if a point is in the
subgroup  but overall there is a
subgroup but overall there is a
pretty much one to one correspondence
between the host function and the SDK
function oh and also  one interesting
function oh and also one interesting
to notice is there's a two addition
method  one is just a plain addition
method one is just a plain addition
and then the other one is the checked
Edition so so the reason for that is
so remember what I said earlier was
the BL 12 381 points are defined over a
particular subgroup  but
particular subgroup but
but but just the the addition operation
can perform on any point on the curve
doesn't have to belong to the subgroup
but in order for that addition to be
useful for our pairings and for our
other  like a SN operation like they
other like a SN operation like they
have to be in the subgroup but the
subgroup check is is is kind of
expensive so if you have a contract
which does like a number of these
additions and only you want to make sure
the end result is on the subgroup then
you can use  the plain add function
you can use the plain add function
which is not taking
yeah which is not taking the  the
yeah which is not taking the the
the check it's just it's just point
doing the addition whereas if you wanted
to be safe and then you wanted to use
the the checked ad which performs the
the the subgroup check  in in the end
modifcation yeah these are all very
standard yeah repeat for
G2 parent
check oh yeah okay  one thing about
check oh yeah okay one thing about
the parent check here  like I
the parent check here like I
mentioned earlier  in this equation
mentioned earlier in this equation
this is a parent check it's check
checking a pairing of two points equals
some relationship of pairing like with a
either like a a result of a pairing
multiplied by each other or like
additional terms but the the pairing
result itself  is is a point on a
result itself is is a point on a
higher degree  in a higher degree
higher degree in a higher degree
extension F12 and then to compute that
F12 is very expensive so the parent
check is intended such that we we can
perform multiple pairings  together
perform multiple pairings together
and then check that this the end result
equals to one which means this
pairing  returns true or false if it
pairing returns true or false if it
satisfies true otherwise it's false
the the benefit of that is that these
intermediate result they can be they can
be performed on a a much lower degree
which is much more efficient and only at
the very end do you have to or you don't
have to but like internally the
algorithm will send that to the
the 12's order and then do the
comparison check with  the the U the
comparison check with the the U the
number one in 12 extension so so the
reason for that is  in most of the
reason for that is in most of the
applications either in signature
checking or in in SN verification  you
checking or in in SN verification you
only need to do pairing to to check
certain relation hold like in a SN for
example  you are checking that your
example you are checking that your
polinomial  contains a certain
polinomial contains a certain
structure  by that you are Computing
structure by that you are Computing
some
polinomial  relations and then you're
polinomial relations and then you're
checking that the left side equals right
right right hand side  this relation
right right hand side this relation
hold so you you in in now the point you
actually need that 12 degree extension
Point all you have to do is to make sure
the left side equal right side so so far
I haven't  heard of any application
I haven't heard of any application
that specifically needs the result of
the pairing so that's why we went with
this design of just passing a vector of
G1 Vector of G2  perform pairwise Che
G1 Vector of G2 perform pairwise Che
pairing and then check the result in the
end if it's equal than  equal to one
end if it's equal than equal to one
then return true otherwise return false
so it's just a
it's other line mass is the same but
just  you know something to be be
just you know something to be be
aware like it's it's not taking a single
point pair with a single point but
taking a vector of pair with a vector
and then these ones we covered okay
so I think that's it for the building
block oh it took 20 minutes it's
probably should probably speed up a
little huh
okay so let's talk about the the useful
applications U first first of all the
BRS signatures  so I think I went
BRS signatures so I think I went
through this in one of the protocol
meeting earlier so I just keep it a
little more brief  because the other
little more brief because the other
ones I think more interesting  so the
ones I think more interesting so the
BR signature  the way it works I'm
BR signature the way it works I'm
trying to find the paragraph that does
explanation so yeah so so here there's a
there's some some kind of secret key and
then oh sorry this is a public key
okay so the the public key is some
number times the point  the generator
number times the point the generator
point and then the the signature is
the public key times hash of the message
and by the parent property if you just
if you do the  the public key and the
if you do the the public key and the
hash of the message and then you move
the  the Scala part  around in the
the the Scala part around in the
end you just you get a you get a a check
which is the  the generator so the the
which is the the generator so the the
pairing of the of the public key and the
hash of message equals the the pairing
of the the generator and then the the
the signature so yeah if you it's fairly
straightforward the public key here
sorry I don't know why you call PK it's
actually just a secret key here  you
actually just a secret key here you
can move it
it appears on the left in the beginning
but you can move it on the right and
then this becomes the the the signature
so the left and right must hold if this
signature is valid and the good thing
about it is that  if you have the same
about it is that if you have the same
message and then multiple public Keys
signing the message then you can
essentially just aggregate all the
signatures together and aggregate all
the Public Public Keys together  do
the Public Public Keys together do
this off chain and all you have to do is
just to verify one pairing  then you
just to verify one pairing then you
can you know verify potentially hundreds
of signatures all at once  and this is
of signatures all at once and this is
only this is   if the messages are
only this is if the messages are
same but if the message are unique then
for every message like M number message
there will be like M plus one parent
checks  so that's the general idea of
checks so that's the general idea of
the UHS signature so let's see the
example  so
example so
so we have
here hope you can see the code here
so this one example is already in the s
bomb  example repo  you can look at
bomb example repo you can look at
it today  I try to keep it documented
it today I try to keep it documented
I think it's fairly straightforward
in the it's a pretty much as
increment contract but the increment is
requires an O which is a  for every
requires an O which is a for every
time you increment it will check called
check or and then check some the
signature payload and the  and then
signature payload and the and then
the public key so inside here is
basically just loading loading the
aggregate public key  loading your
aggregate public key loading your
domain separation tag  and then
domain separation tag and then
construct the vector and call pairing
that's all that is and then you can look
at the test which is doing most of the
setups
here it contains 10 pairs of signatures
applying the aggregation and
signature aggregation and then here just
runs the test which invokes the check
all with some random
payload  if I run
payload if I run
that yeah the
signature  signature passes and then
signature signature passes and then
it dumps out the the budget and then
yeah so this simple operation is like 31
31 million CPU instructions  so
31 million CPU instructions so
yeah remember this is 10 10 different
signatures on the same payload  so 31
signatures on the same payload so 31
31 million to verify 10 signature you
can do also more if they
more so that's a very brief  walk
more so that's a very brief walk
through of the  the V signature so
through of the the V signature so
now I want to go go and  do something
now I want to go go and do something
new and the potentially interesting
which is the the cross 16 verifier so in
order to show that we have the building
block to build real ZK applications  I
block to build real ZK applications I
went and  generated a very simple
went and generated a very simple
simple proof and then  Ed a very
simple proof and then Ed a very
simple impementation of the grass 16
verifier to verify that proof and  I
verifier to verify that proof and I
want to  walk you through it
want to walk you through it
so I don't know if we have enough time
for me to
actually
so do do we do we have time how much
time we have yeah yeah yeah take the
time you need yeah okay yeah because I I
do want to just walk you through the
steps that that's required to  to
steps that that's required to to
generate the the proof and and and see
see it in action because a lot of a lot
of this is is looks like magic when you
first run it like just dump dumped a
bunch of things so okay
so here  don't know if you can see the
so here don't know if you can see the
link here but I'm basically using
circum U circum doio  if you just
circum U circum doio if you just
search for it at the installation the
getting started guy  so circum is a is
getting started guy so circum is a is
a tool so
circum  and snjs is a pair of tools
circum and snjs is a pair of tools
one is for defining the circuit which is
a arithmetic relation of what you're
trying to compute and then snjs is a is
a tool that allows you to take in the
circuit and and do all kinds of
computations and generate the proof and
also verify the proof so what we're
doing is  we're going to just follow
doing is we're going to just follow
this exact guide here
generate Define the circuit  do all
generate Define the circuit do all
the setup necessary generate the proof
and then once we have the proof we will
write our own contract  to verify it
write our own contract to verify it
in soron instead of verified in
snjs okay so let's
see okay going to make
this just
screen all right hope you can see
my both of my
screens so so I did little bit of
preparation so  here's a brand new
preparation so here's a brand new
folder I have these two files  these
folder I have these two files these
are the exact instructions here it tells
you to copy the input copy the circle I
just did in advents so we don't have to
go through that so the first thing  it
go through that so the first thing it
wants you to do is to install these
dependencies which I already did so we
can skip that and the second one is that
it tells you to  Define the circuit
it tells you to Define the circuit
in the circum language the the circle is
really  simple it's the simplest you
really simple it's the simplest you
can get basically multiplying two
numbers and then and then output the the
result of the
multiplication  however the the
multiplication however the the
interesting part is that these inputs A
and B are  private inputs so in the
and B are private inputs so in the
end  your proof will prove that this
end your proof will prove that this
computation was done correctly
without revealing What A and B is so
only the only public output will be C
the  the number the result of the
the the number the result of the
multiplication so what we what we did
here is just copy this exact program
into this multiplier
file and then the next
one  compiling the circuit so yeah so
one compiling the circuit so yeah so
scales gives you the the Circ
instructions  how to do that so this
instructions how to do that so this
is basically just writing this circuit
in in in some formats and  so that it
in in in some formats and so that it
can can be understood by  the other
can can be understood by the other
tools
but there's one thing we have to
change on this
command which is BRS
12381  so the reason that we need to
12381 so the reason that we need to
specify this is the the circuit
compilation  needs to know the range
compilation needs to know the range
of like the the the range of  prime
of like the the the range of prime
number so it needs to take the prime the
prime number the 3 381  one bit number
prime number the 3 381 one bit number
associated with with our curve right
this B 12 31 and use that as a as as a
curve to generate this circuit otherwise
it I don't know what happens although I
haven't tried but you should you should
do that so once you do that  it will
do that so once you do that it will
generate the multiplier in this R1 CS
format and then some other stuff so the
R1 CS is a rank one constraint system
why is it called so so think of any
complex computation like a a know a squ
* Bal C something like that  you can
* Bal C something like that you can
always break it down into simpler
computation by creating intermediate
Gates and then assigning intermediate
gates to you know more intermediate and
then like in the end you you just
compute two things to an output
so so the the the process of R1 CS is
just  comp  deconstruct a complex
just comp deconstruct a complex
computation in something into something
simple as a left left hand side times
right hand side equals an output whereas
both left hand side right hand side and
output are rank one which means the
highest polinomial degree is one so you
can have like a plus b but not a
square so that's what it
is okay once you do that  the next
is okay once you do that the next
step is to compute the witness so so at
this point we have the circuit which is
our structure of our computation but in
order to to compute it like in order to
to be verifiable we have to comput it
with some inputs and then generate
the proofs and all that so here is just
defining the the input I I did did here
which is exactly what it's using so it
Tak
3 * 11 so the output will be  33
3 * 11 so the output will be 33
but we don't we won't know about this
three and
11 so once we have that  we will enter
11 so once we have that we will enter
the  the JS
the the JS
Library okay it's empty right  it's
Library okay it's empty right it's
generate yeah some other AO generated
code to compute  stuff so what we do
code to compute stuff so what we do
here is
actually copy this one but I'll input
this
some okay so this one is just generating
the the witnesses
and then you can also do this with
C++ and then once you do that you have
the  the witness file I don't think we
the the witness file I don't think we
can load it yet but it's just a
yeah the the witness  is just the
yeah the the witness is just the
input basically
like I think the witness is it private
or just probably I I don't I forgot the
exact terminology but it's possible that
the witness is just a public output U so
so so only the C part 33 is contained in
the
witness okay now comes to the proving
part so yeah so so here here there's a
bunch of commands if you do it for the
first time it will look fairly weird
because it's telling you to generate
a power to ceremony  so what what it
a power to ceremony so what what it
what it really is is  so in order to
what it really is is so in order to
yeah so in order to compute  the proof
yeah so in order to compute the proof
so okay so remember we have the R1 CS
file and then the R1 CS is just a system
with equations of different  nodes and
with equations of different nodes and
then every equation is just a simple
rank one left right equals output
multiplication and and and so the the
next step in order to  make that into
next step in order to make that into
some kind of provable structure is to
convert this into a qap which is a  qu
convert this into a qap which is a qu
quadratic arithmetic program what it
does is to on each side the left right
and output it  fits  a number of
and output it fits a number of
polinomial that evaluate to  at
polinomial that evaluate to at
certain points so the number of
equations is is a number of constraints
and at each constraint the polinomial
will evaluate at a different points so
to keep them separate and then a pol
polinomial is the aggregation of smaller
Pol polinomial defined over each unique
node so  what you what you think in
node so what you what you think in
the and is just
a instead of left left times right
equals output you have a left side
polinomial  of some degree degree
polinomial of some degree degree
which which matches the number of
constraints and same for right hand side
and the opposite side
and and in order to to verify this
polinomial computed correctly  we so
polinomial computed correctly we so
here here's a key here's a key
concept U is in order to verify the
computational polinomial all you have to
do is to verify the computation of a
polinomial at a single random Point
so this may sound little you know
counterintuitive in the beginning but if
you if you have polinomial of degree two
then there can be only two roots and
then if you have two polinomial of
degree two you you subtract them
together it can still only have two
Roots so which means that it can the two
polinomial can only be identical at n
number of points where n being the
degree of the polinomial so even if we
have you know hundreds thousands of
constraints in our circuit the space the
total space of our   of our SN the
total space of our of our SN the
the prime modulus or rather the subgroup
is 200 200 56 bits long so it is
impossible for any  Collision to
impossible for any Collision to
happen in in real chance so this this a
key concept of how to like how to
convert this polinomial into a u into a
non interactive check which is you just
need to make sure that it's evaluated at
a truly random  value and then this
a truly random value and then this
the verifier or anyone can just take the
output of that and then make sure and
then check the verification that  the
then check the verification that the
the polinomial equality holds with
pairing  what we introduce here so
pairing what we introduce here so
this is what it does so so the power of
to here the the long story short is just
the the steps necessary to generate that
random point at which the polinomial are
evaluated that's really what it is  so
evaluated that's really what it is so
I'm going to spe speed around through
these steps here  it's not really that
these steps here it's not really that
interesting there's a lot of output you
can look at it later
sorry B 12
31 that's the first step contribute to
ceremony some random
text it's going to compute set up some
ceremony and then  the gr 16 requires
ceremony and then the gr 16 requires
a a public  a Universal setup which is
a a public a Universal setup which is
for the whole like you have to do once
and then the per Circle specific setup
so that's the second step here
so this was the last command prepare
phase two and then yeah
just set up the circle specific
stuff okay and then
and then contribute to
the another text okay so now we have the
the  the proving key and the
the the proving key and the
verification key set up for this circuit
and the next step is to generate the
proof okay so in the end we have  this
proof okay so in the end we have this
proof
yeah which which  contains  ter
yeah which which contains ter
terms which is like encrypted evaluation
of polinomial at some
point then there should also be the
public public. Json do we get
that oh  I think I sent it to the
that oh I think I sent it to the
previous folder but yeah the
public should just have one value here
which is 33 so  to verify  verify
which is 33 so to verify verify
a proof to so what what we need to do is
to write a  a
to write a a
contract  this here it makes really
contract this here it makes really
easy for you to do so there's a step
where you can  call to generate a
where you can call to generate a
ethereum u solidity contract for
verifying
and then
four yeah
okay if we just look at it
here yeah so the cont itself is  it's
here yeah so the cont itself is it's
not that interesting  I'm not familiar
not that interesting I'm not familiar
too much with solidity but most of the
logic here is just packing bits into
memories and then in the end it's called
this caring on you know a bunch of terms
so we can easily convert that into a Sor
Bond and the output of you know our
contract is just this much it it
verifies the proof takes a verification
key which is some  like G1 G2 points
key which is some like G1 G2 points
and then approve which contains also
points in G1 G2 public signal in this
case just one which is 33 encoded into
the scale a field
number  and then aggregate the input
number and then aggregate the input
and then  yeah construct the back to
and then yeah construct the back to
check paing and that's really it and
then I did  I copied all of the the
then I did I copied all of the the
outputs  it's a it will be a different
outputs it's a it will be a different
one than what we gener earlier because
there an entropy I I because of the
random randomness  but but I did this
random randomness but but I did this
earlier I just copied all these  the
earlier I just copied all these the
the pro the proof part and the ver if
ification key part this is proof and
then this is the VK and then construct
the the key construct the proof and then
just call  the verify proof and assert
just call the verify proof and assert
that this result  must be true because
that this result must be true because
the we've putting  you know the output
the we've putting you know the output
at 33 so which is matches our public
output so let's run this
test okay so it finished and you can see
that this verifying the ZK proof
takes around 30 like 41 million CPU
instructions it performs  four parent
instructions it performs four parent
checks per some addition multiplication
in G1 space so if you have more public
input then there will be more
multiplication and additions here but
the pairing is only there's only four
pairing so the so the total CPU is
roughly this this amount  yeah I think
roughly this this amount yeah I think
that's it  sorry for taking  longer
that's it sorry for taking longer
than expected but  this is it and
than expected but this is it and
hopefully that you can see that this is
this is  you know exciting stuff
this is you know exciting stuff
that you can use to build  DK
that you can use to build DK
application today you may ask what's the
use of it  you know the real
use of it you know the real
interesting part is is in the circuit
part  so instead of proving you know a
part so instead of proving you know a
b and c you can write a much
interesting one like you know proving
hash like comput computation of a hash
or or knowing a pass in a Merle tree
which is like proof of possession or
something like that so all the
Innovations you know a lot of it can can
happen on the Contra side which is what
you guys  you know are that that stuff
you guys you know are that that stuff
so yeah really looking forward to
seeing what comes out of it and yeah
let me know if you have questions we
also have a Discord threat feel free to
post it there and I'll hand it over to
cin great thank you so much this was
this was really good I think the
examples and and walking through the
code really made it U easier to
understand and and see see potential
with so I know we have one question
let me see Elliot was asking a question
earlier about if the host functions are
all that's needed for CK snarks on
Stellar or if there's still additional
functionality that's missing I don't
know if you have an answer for that yeah
to to verify the SN it's all we need
okay so there there are some some quoes
in SDK which we we we build it like in
the  like we provide the the the most
the like we provide the the the most
generic like interface to expose this
for but there's a little bit corks like
you like for example ear U see in order
to try to store that  I have to store
to try to store that I have to store
the Bice instead of the G1 G2 but that's
the fix and also to compute the
negation of a point  you have to do it
negation of a point you have to do it
on the contract side but yeah  in
on the contract side but yeah in
terms of verification all the tools are
there  but there may be some ux gap
there but there may be some ux gap
which I'm discovering and should be
fixing soon and also with your guys help
we will be able to make it better yeah
but in terms of verification that's it
but in terms of pro proving  so as you
but in terms of pro proving so as you
see proving has to happen offchain and
then that's quite elaborate  toour set
then that's quite elaborate toour set
and also like different  Suites of
and also like different Suites of
you know there's different Frameworks of
U like Marin  you know gr 16 Plank and
U like Marin you know gr 16 Plank and
and all the other other tools that you
can use so we haven't provide any of
that and we don't  endorse any of it I
that and we don't endorse any of it I
was just using the snjs as a example
because that's one of the you know most
well known  and then yeah that also
well known and then yeah that also
the the public ceremony aspect  yeah
the the public ceremony aspect yeah
we don't have it on chain so but yeah
you can verify it but not there's no
proving   tour CH available at the
proving tour CH available at the
moment okay great any any other
questions feel free to put them in the
chat I don't
think that's the case
we are kind of running out of time so
I
will save the the  walk through of
will save the the walk through of
quick start for the next meeting  but
quick start for the next meeting but
yeah if there's no other questions then
I think
U we will stop it right here let's
see
yeah
okay well thank you Jay thank you for
for for for your presentation it was
really good I think  I think going
really good I think I think going
forward when we when we add new
functionality in in protocol when we
upgrade the network I think it's it's
relevant to to maybe spend some time in
in these meetings to to go over some of
the new new functionality and some of
the the things we can do as a developer
so yeah  look forward to to more of
so yeah look forward to to more of
this kind of presentations but thank you
J Jay and thank you for everyone who
joined have a good holiday thank you you
guys happy holiday bye